updates for CAM (#24)
NorESMhub/NorESM-docs: configurations/amips.rst

.. _amips:

Atmosphere
==========

CAM6-Nor
^^^^^^^^

In NorESM2, the atmospheric model CAM6-Nor replaces standard CAM. CAM6-Nor differs from CAM6 in several ways. Some of the changes are modifications to existing files (scripts, xml-files, F90-files), some code changes are made by copying original files in a different directory and modifying them, and some changes are really new code. In the F90 files, some of the changes are actived by #CAMOSLO . Below the main differences in the code are described:

**Atmospheric chemistry/aerosol/cloud module: OsloAero6**

A different aerosol scheme is included in CAM6-Nor.  The code for this scheme can be mainly be found in the following directories under <noresm-base>:

* components/cam/NorESM/
* components/cam/NorESM/fv
* components/cam/src/chemistry/pp_trop_mam_oslo
* components/cam/src/chemistry/oslo_aero 
* components/cam/src/physics/cam_oslo

Then code in ``chemistry/pp_trop_mam_oslo`` contains code generated by
the CAM chemistry preprocessor. Meanwhile, the code in
``chemistry/oslo_aero`` and ``physics/cam_oslo`` contains numerous

> 'shadow files' which are contain CAM-OSLO specific modifications to

Author: Thanks for catching this. Fixed.

* ``cmip6_noresm_fsst_xaer`` (history_aerosol=.true. and AEROCOM diagnostics activated)
* ``cmip6_noresm_fsst_hifreq_xaer`` (high frecuency output, history_aerosol=.true. and AEROCOM diagnostics activated)

Details of compset definitions for AMIP simulations
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The NorESM AMIP compsets are defined in the file ::

  <noresm_base>/components/cam/cime_config/config_compsets.xml

This example details the contents of "NFHISTnorbc" compset::

  <!-- fSST : evolving NorESM derived ; DMS: evolving NorESM derived -->
  <compset>
    <alias>NFHISTnorbc</alias>
    <lname>HIST_CAM60%NORESM%NORBC_CLM50%BGC-CROP_CICE%PRES_DOCN%DOM_MOSART_SGLC_SWAV</lname>
  </compset>

E.g.

.. glossary::

  HIST_CAM60%NORESM%NORBC
    * Forcing and input files read from historical conditions (1850 - 2015)
    * Build CAM6.0 (the atmosphere model) with NorESM specific additions and NorESM derived boundary conditions  (for the boundary conditions, please see explonation below).

  CLM50%BGC-CROP
    * Build CLM5 (land model) with a global crop model (interactive vegetation)
    * If you want pre-described vegetation, use CLM50%SP

  CICE%PRES

>     * Build CICE (sea-ice model) with prescribed sea-ice concentration (that are consistent with the  prescribed SSTs)

Author: fixed.

  DOCN%DOM
    * Build data ocean with fixed SSTs (that are consistent with prescribed sea-ice concentrations) 

  MOSART
    * Build MOSART (river runoff model) with default configurations

  SGLC

>     * The SGLC (land-ice) component is a 'stub' component  which is only to satisfy the interface requirements

Author: Done.

  SWAV

>     * The SWAV (ocean-wave) component is a 'stub' component  which is only to satisfy the interface requirements

Author: Done.

The SST/sea-ice-concentration file that is used for a given CAM compset configuration (e.g. ``CAM60%NORESM%NORBC``) is set in the file ::

      <noresm_base>/cime/src/components/data_comps/docn/cime_config/config_component.xml

and appears in the run time xml variable ``SSTICE_DATA_FILENAME`` in  ``env_run.xml``.
To use a different forcing file, use the command ``xmlchange`` to
modify ``SSTICE_DATA_FILENAME`` to point to a full pathname of a
alternative dataset that contains new SST and sea-ice concentration data
that can be used by both CICE and DOCN.

AMIP-style simulations with observed SSTs and frc2 emission files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The compsets using observed obtained from compset names with *fsst*:

Author: Right.

    <compset>
      <alias>NFHISTfsstfrc2</alias>
      <lname>HIST_CAM60%NORESM%FSST%FRC2_CLM50%BGC-CROP_CICE%PRES_DOCN%DOM_MOSART_SGLC_SWAV</lname>
    </compset>

NorESM2-derived boundary conditions for AMIP-style simulations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> While the prescribed values used in atmosphere-only simulations are often based on observations, one might also want to use values that resemble those from a fully-coupled simulation with NorESM2. To achieve this, it is necessary to use prescribed boundary conditions for SST, sea-ice cover and upper-ocean DMS concentrations (all three fields taken from the fully-coupled simulation). Up to now, 4 sets of boundary conditions have been made and can be activate with the compset specification listed):

Reviewer: typo and suggested change:
```suggestion
While the prescribed values used in atmosphere-only simulations are often based on observations, one might also want to use values that resemble those from a fully-coupled simulation with NorESM2. To achieve this, it is necessary to use prescribed boundary conditions for SST, sea-ice cover and upper-ocean DMS concentrations (all three fields taken from the fully-coupled simulation). Up to now, 4 sets of boundary conditions have been made and can be activated with one of the compset specifications listed below):
```
